My name is Shawn Geddis.
I'm security consulting engineer
in Apple's enterprise division.
And hopefully today most of you
are either in the IT space or if
you're a developer you just want
to get a little bit more knowledge
with respect to certificates.
Because this is more,
this session is geared more
towards kind of the high level
approach on certificates,
validation uses of identities
and things like that.
So just to help set expectations.
Let's kind of move forward here.
First of all,
what do we mean by the use of identities
and what is it that we really want to
kind of introduce to you here today?
When you're in kind of the digital world,
you've got to prove who you
are or kind of assert yourself.
So that's one of the things we want to
get into is using trusted identities.
We want to walk you through,
hopefully we'll give you some new
information here about the creation,
the management and the use of those
identities in the digital world.
And that should then allow you
to leverage the collaboration
services we have built into the
OS or things like on the phone.
And then show you or kind of
walk you through kind of that
improved user experience related
to the use of identities.
So again, kind of emphasizing here
about the retrieving,
storing and validating identities itself,
the trust.
There's a lot of folks within
IT space that are moving towards
heavy use of PKI certificates,
the public private key approach here.
And the whole concept trust
gets a little bit complicated.
We've been dealing with this
kind of content for the last
couple of years within WWDC.
And we just have realized from
experience with some attendees,
we just need to kind of reinforce
some of this as we go forward.
But most of all,
we want to show you some of those
built-in services within OS X.
So as we talk about these
identities or these services,
these tools,
we always have to step back and think
about the problems we're trying to solve.
The real world problems we're trying
to solve in your organization,
within your infrastructure.
It's the assertion of who we
are in this digital world.
How to acquire those identities
and retain and protect them safely.
The session just earlier
was talking about secure
application or secure programming.
How do we do that with the identities?
How do we keep that
secure once we obtain it?
How do we prove who we are
and then are always able to
assert that wherever we are?
Again, collaboration with the
trusted identities.
We want to generate and deploy this.
Many of you may have begun to do
some things with certificates.
You may not know how best to do that
deployment within your environment,
how to get those certificates
out to all your users,
whether they be mobile or whether they be
within a given building or organization.
How do you get these
identities to all your users?
So let's do this.
First of all,
I've been mentioning the word
identity quite a bit here.
What does it really mean?
And from a standpoint of PKI here,
an identity is really a certificate
with a corresponding private key.
Right?
And the certificate, to most,
it's easily understood if you think
of kind of a bill of materials.
You've got kind of a list of things
and that pulls it all together.
It's kind of the association
of these objects.
And combining those two
together effectively represents
you as a unique identity,
again, within this digital world.
And that private key
is something you have.
So it's always this something you have
and something you hold and protect.
Again, that being the private key.
And that comes into play all along
the private and public key here.
So a typical identity,
keep in mind whether you're in IT or
whether you're on the development side,
that many more instances,
I as an individual or you,
can have multiple identities.
Right?
I can have multiple identities
for a given email address.
I can sign my messages with
an identity I get from,
say, VeriSign or Thought or
maybe I issue my own.
So don't always assume or take
for granted that every individual
is always going to have a single
identity at all within this world.
And a typical approach when we think
of the storing of this identity is that
I have a particular kind of identity
with private key and the certificate.
And then we get into the email,
we get into VPN, we get into client-side
authentication for web access.
These are going to be
all the different usages.
So let's start with the usage scenario
that you're going to face is how
do I obtain this as an end user,
as an IT individual?
How do I obtain an identity?
Well,
there's a couple methods and the one that
we most often use is obtaining that from
some well-known certificate authority.
We do the request,
we get that issued to us,
we have our identity.
Well, you can go further.
Here we're listing web-based and
typically most of us are issuing
maybe with VeriSign and others.
You think about .Mac,
those of you who had .Mac services,
you had iChat,
you had similar things where
you get your .Mac identity.
iPhone, if you are an iPhone developer,
you should have been issued your
iPhone development identity as well.
The final one is one that we're
going to hit on a lot today and
that is creating your own identity,
creating your own certificate
authority and taking kind of the
issuance into your own hands.
So let's walk through this process.
So if you're obtaining
an identity from a CA,
the first thing is I'm
on Bob's computer here.
So I'm going to create my
public/private key pair and I'm then
going to submit this as a request,
a CSR, certificate signing request.
I'm going to submit that to the CA,
the certificate authority,
saying please issue me a
certificate for this purpose,
for various purposes that,
for maybe email, again for VPN,
things like this.
And once that is approved at the CA,
that's going to be issued back
to me for the actual certificate.
Now again, remember that's that bill of
materials now associates my keys,
who I am and binds all
that information together.
So if I do that effectively,
that's one method.
But another similar method is how about
if the CA did the actual creation of
those keys and pushed them all to me.
So this would be, again,
the situation of the certificate
authority generating the
key pairs on my behalf.
This may be an environment like
auto-enrollment where you are
the IT admin and you are kind
of pre-enrolling your users and
pushing out their identity to them.
So the CA in this case
generates the key pairs,
signs the certificate itself
and then does that wrapping of
that identity into the P12 file.
That's really kind of the secure
wrapping of the full identity.
Pushes it down to the individual,
Bob's computer.
They import that into
their key chain in OS X.
Now they have the same end result,
their public/private key
pair and their certificate.
Again, two different methods
of obtaining that CA.
Now, if you've got the actual P12
file that I was just mentioning,
some of the scenarios of getting that
into an OS X machine to manage that
for use of various services is the
simplest way is obviously the GUI.
You just double click on the file.
Keychain access comes up and asks
you which keychain to import it into.
Keychain being that secure
credential store for that identity.
Those can select the import menu
option as well within keychain access.
But I'm probably pretty sure that most
of you in the IT space are now wanting
to think about how you script this on
a large scale to a lot of your users,
a lot of your machines.
That's when you want to rely
on the security command.
And user bin security,
that gives you the full capabilities of
doing this management of the keychains,
the importing and the trust
you'll see in a little bit of
these certificates and keys.
So security command will
be your best friend.
If you're trying to script or
do some kind of large scale
deployment from the command line
or from kind of back end tools.
The nice thing about this as
well is keychain access and
security tool also give you the
ability of doing that export.
So if you're either creating your
own and you want to export that
identity and share it between multiple
machines that you may have personally
or between multiple admin machines,
again both the keychain access
application itself and security
gives you the export capabilities.
So, we take the next step.
Great, I've got this identity myself,
but how do I access these within OS X?
How do I leverage that identity?
The identities themselves are
stored in a couple different places.
First of all,
we just walked through the typical
store of your identities in a keychain.
Most of you would probably
store it in your login keychain.
Second of all,
some of you might be familiar with
or have heard about smart cards.
Smart cards would be a physical
kind of a token device that now
is secure protection of that
same kind of credential store.
So if I had a smart card
into my OS X system,
I could be storing my
identity on that smart card.
And then finally,
when you are pulling either your own
identity information or you're pulling
public certs for the recipients,
maybe you want to encrypt
an email message to them,
you'd be pulling it from a
LDAP accessible directory
service environment where you're,
again,
pulling those from the user certificate
or the user SMIME certificate attributes
within that directory service.
So that's where they're stored.
And when you go to view this,
if you're not familiar,
within keychain access,
as you open up keychain access window,
down in the categories area,
there are a couple category listed.
There's been some confusion in the past.
So certificates,
they just would list the public
certificates that you have in
various keychains that you've
got in your keychain list.
When you select my certificates,
that's showing you those identities.
It's showing you the correlation or
the association between the certificate
and the corresponding private key.
In this case,
I'm just showing some of the identities
that I had in my keychains here.
So many of you that
are iPhone developers,
this should look familiar to you.
This would actually be the iPhone
identity issued to you as a developer.
And again, I just imported it into
a different keychain.
You see the keychain
name there is iPhone Dev.
You can have as many
keychains as you need.
You're not limited to one or two.
I think I have about five or six.
And I typically do that
for various purposes.
I may store very public,
kind of freely disposable items in
one keychain that I just kind of
discard or wipe out periodically.
Those that are more secure,
I may change the mechanism
that protects it.
Maybe I change the passphrase
on that keychain or I protect
it with a smart card.
It gives me some different
levels of protection.
So if you're doing a lookup, again,
this is kind of where do we
go to get these identities.
When you're looking
on both 10.4 and 10.5,
there's kind of a two-prong approach or
two-step configuration into pulling these
identities from the directory services.
The first is on that particular
host needs to be configured for
LDAP access to that remote directory
store where the certificates are.
10.4, you use directory access.
10.5, you use directory utility.
The second step is
within keychain access,
this is the utility you're doing all
the management of your identities,
certs, you do the enablement in
the preference panel there,
do the enablement for search
directory services for certificates.
That then leverages all of
those directory service entries
you've created for those
LDAP accessible directory services.
Now, when you have multiple identities,
I may have, I think in my case for mail,
I may have three or four.
I have some identities
for some other purposes.
How do you go about selecting which one
to use for each one of those services?
And many of you have probably seen
some various dialogues come up,
windows that have a list of identities.
What's really happening is you have a,
you're particularly accessing a service.
It may be a secure website that
you're accessing now and you need
to select which identity you're
going to use for that purpose.
What would appear is a list of
identities that match the usage of
the service you're going to access.
And once you select that,
you're going to have
a list of identities.
And once you select that,
here's another option here for selecting
yet another identity panel and you're
seeing the full certificate view.
What actually happens is it creates what
we refer to as an identity preference.
When it comes to PKI and the use
of identities and certificates,
Apple works very hard to reach kind
of a zero configuration approach.
And so when you're needing to
manage between which identity
to leverage for these services,
there comes a time where rather than
throw that UI in front of the user,
you need the OS to know
which identity to use.
This leverages those
identity preferences.
So if you weren't aware,
within Keychain Access,
you can manage and enter and create
these identity preferences even manually.
I will show you a little bit
of how the OS manages that.
But you can manually select,
do your contextual menus on that
identity within Keychain Access,
and you'll get a little pop up here.
And you'll see that you can
create identity preferences
for URLs or email addresses.
This gives you a manual way of picking
and choosing which identity to leverage.
And then you're going to select
which certificate to use.
In this case,
it was kind of a reference to
a SSL VPN server maybe that
I was accessing at the time.
You're going to see the-- this
is just a quick view of the
identity preference itself.
And at any time,
if I want to go back and switch
which identity that any application
leveraging that network access for
that particular type of service,
it's always going to use the
identity that I selected here.
Quick view of what it looks like.
It looks almost like the little V card
within the keychain access here.
So we talk about obtaining,
we talk about selecting these identities.
When it comes to PKI,
when it comes to certificates,
you really-- everything
comes down to validity.
How do you validate this?
And a little bit later,
I have a colleague come up and talk
about the trust model within OS X.
But let's look at
validating certificates.
What does OS X do in trying to
validate those certificates?
Within certificate validation,
historically,
there's been a method referred to
as Certificate Revocation List,
or CRL.
It's kind of the legendary
approach of solving this problem.
And the way I describe it to many is,
it's very much like downloading the
whole phone book and then trying to
look somebody up and trying to figure
out whether they're still there or not,
whether they're at the same address,
they have the same phone number.
It requires a lot of bandwidth.
Right?
You're downloading
those huge phone books,
and you can refresh that and
get kind of a new copy of the
book every year they publish it.
But there's a lot of bandwidth.
There's a lot of kind of
data being pushed around.
New methods, new approaches to this,
kind of a successor to CRL, is the OCSP,
is the Online Certificate
Status Protocol,
which is very close to now you being
able to call up that operator and saying,
does this individual still exist,
and where can I find them?
Are they still valid?
Are they still employee
of this organization?
The process within OS X that
does both CRL and OCSP is,
in fact, the OCSPD process running.
So many folks were
looking for a CRL process,
and they may be running TOP,
and they're looking for it,
and they didn't find it.
It's all being managed by OCSPD to
do the certificate validation for
both CRL distribution points and
for OCSP for the AI extensions.
Now,
if you look in Keychain Access within
the preference and you go over
to the tab on certificates,
we have the ability to set
how you want those certificate
validations to take place.
In this case, by default,
I was showing here about best attempt.
That means it's going to go out and
attempt to get the revocation list,
the CRL, or in this case,
get a response from OCSP.
And you can also set that
up for prioritization.
There are many folks that
have either one or the other,
CRL distribution pointer or OCSP.
points in their certificates.
We can set up the prioritization as you
see here and either disable or set that
up for best attempt for both types.
By default, they're both set to off,
so it's not going to go out and do
some additional validation on it.
Any environments that you
have that you want to do full
end-to-end OS X validation,
both Tumbleweed and CoreStreet have
provided for quite some time the server
validators for OS ASP on Mac OS X server.
These are just some
good references for you.
So let me move on and hand things over to
colleague Ken McLeod to walk you through
the whole trust model within Mac OS X.
All right.
Thanks, Shawn.
Hi, everybody.
I'm Ken McLeod.
I'm an engineer in the data
security group at Apple.
Data security is responsible for,
obviously, certificates, key chain,
security frameworks, that sort of thing.
What I'd like to talk about
today is the second part.
Shawn talked to you about an
identity and what that means.
That says who you are.
That answers the question, who is this?
This is somebody that's certified
with a particular private key.
But how do you know you
can trust that person?
How do you know you can trust
the particular certificate
that's being presented to you?
Well,
we do this with X.509 validation and
X.509 certificate trust validation
starts off with a leaf certificate.
This is the certificate
that we're interested in to
know whether it's trusted.
So we look and see who signed that
certificate and if the certificate
is signed maybe by an intermediate,
we can follow the chain back
and see who signed that.
And at some point,
we will get back to a certificate at
the end of the chain that is signed
itself at the end of the chain.
And we ask the question,
is that certificate signed?
And if it is,
then we've built a chain of trust
from the leaf to the root and
we know we can trust that leaf
certificate that's been presented.
There's a problem with that.
The farther back and
the longer the chain is,
the more certificates end up
being signed by that route.
If you chain back to VeriSign
or one of the large CAs,
they've issued thousands upon
thousands of certificates.
If you trust their route,
you're essentially trusting everything
that they may have signed and
everything down the stream from them.
To solve that kind of problem
and to be able to narrow
the scope of what you trust,
in Mac OS X 10.5,
we allow you to specify a trusted
anchor that is not a root but
is rather further down the line.
And in fact,
I can take this to its logical
conclusion and set my trust
on an individual certificate.
So I don't even have to build a chain
beyond the particular certificate
that I want to trust at the end there.
Now, 10.5 is very different in this
respect from what came before.
Before Leopard,
we had a very simple trust model and
there was a single source of trust.
You had a root certificate and if it
was in a special keychain container,
X.509 anchors, many of you have heard of
that X.509 anchors keychain,
your root certificate had to go in
there to establish any kind of trust.
And of course,
you had to be an administrator
of the machine to do that.
But this got a lot easier with Leopard.
In Leopard, we no longer use a particular
location as the source of trust.
So X.509 Anchors is no longer magic
and putting something in there
will not cause it to be trusted.
Instead, there are three levels,
there are three domains.
And we have the same root
certificates that we provided in
X.509 Anchors are still there.
They're in a new keychain
called system root certificates.
But again,
where they live is not as important
as the fact that they're trusted.
So the system provided
ones go in that keychain.
And then there's another level where
you can override that or add to it.
You can add your own root certificates
to start a chain in the system keychain.
Now, why the system keychain if it
doesn't matter where they live?
The system keychain is the
keychain that every user can see.
It's configured to be available
to every user of the system.
So it's a handy place to store
root certificates if you want
multiple users to see them.
But of course,
they don't have to go there.
If you have certificates that only you
trust in one particular user account,
they can go anywhere.
So there are three what we
call trust domains here.
And we have the system trust domain,
which is kind of at the lowest level.
This is what ships out
of the box in Mac OS X.
This is what Apple provides to you.
And Apple has said,
these things are trusted out of the box.
We give you Ferris sign and whoever else,
the standard list of root
CAs that are trusted.
You can override this in the next level,
which is the admin trust domain,
by either saying these things are
not trusted that Apple provided,
or maybe you've added some
of your own and you say,
these are in addition and
I want to trust them as well.
Now, the admin trust domain is seen
by all users of the system.
It applies across the board
to every user account.
In your own user account,
you have a user trust domain.
And you can specify that certain
things can override either what's
specified by the administrator.
Or what's specified by
Apple in the system domain.
Now, I should point out that some of you
were concerned by that in sessions past.
That is able to be disabled.
So if an administrator does
not want a user trust domain
on the system to override their
choices when they've set up,
it can be disabled.
I'll show you that in a little bit.
In 10.5,
it's pretty easy to create an identity
and to create a certificate authority.
And a certificate authority is really
nothing more than just a identity
that's allowed to sign other certs.
But it's kind of special in that
you really want it to be trustworthy
if you are a certificate authority.
And the only way to do that is
to know that you are the only
person that has the private key,
that has access and is able to
use that certificate authority.
So you really have to
think about securing that.
And in fact,
the large CAs have a very complicated
process for securing those that involves
locked rooms and steel cages and
armed guards and that sort of thing,
just like the movies.
And these are things that you actually
have to think about because if
somebody gets hold of your private key,
they essentially have stolen that
identity and they can issue things and,
you know, a certificate issued from
that certificate authority
would be indistinguishable
from one that you had issued.
So another way of keeping things
secure is to make sure that
when you issue certificates
that the key usage is limited,
that you only issue things or
you only use the certificate for
a particular use that you need
it for and not across the board.
So these changes that were
introduced in 10.5 have some
pretty big implications for people,
especially supporting
large organizations,
universities, you know, IT.
You've got a new trust
model to deal with.
Now, previously,
all you had to do was add a
certificate to the X.509 Anchors
keychain and you were done.
It was trusted.
You were set up.
On Leopard and later,
you'll need to put your, obviously,
certificate somewhere.
We recommend the system keychain because
it's one that's available for everyone.
But you'll also have to add
trust to that as a separate step.
And Shawn mentioned the security command,
which is in user bin security.
That's a very handy tool for
doing all sorts of configuration
related to security and trust.
Specifically here,
there's an add trusted cert
command that will let you add
a certificate with particular
trust settings that you specify.
And I'll give you a little
demo of that in a minute here.
If you add it to the admin domain
by passing the dash D option,
you won't have any interaction required
and you can write a script that does
automatic setup for your organization.
So how exactly does a certificate
go from just being a certificate
to actually gaining trust?
Again, out of the box,
if it chains back to one
of those trusted things,
we know we can trust it.
But very often you will encounter
a website or you'll communicate
with some other entity and their
certificate you'll not have seen
before and it won't be trusted.
So how do you bootstrap that?
Usually it's best to do this on
the first time you've seen it.
You encounter it right at the time
that the certificate is being used.
And the sort of canonical
example here is Safari.
If you go to an HTTPS website
in Safari and it is signed
with an untrusted certificate,
you get a little dialogue that asks,
do you trust this at that time?
And you can trust the certificate
because there's separate trust domains.
You can either trust it on a per user
basis for the user trust domain or for
all users with the admin trust domain.
The keychain access utility lets
you go in manually and edit any
trust settings on certificates.
The diagram there that you see
is what that looks like when
you open up a certificate.
For various usages,
you have the ability to say,
I trust this, but perhaps I don't trust
it for another usage.
And again,
anything or almost anything you can do
in keychain access can be done on the
command line with the security tool.
So the security tool lets you
add trusted cert to add and
change the trust settings.
And it also has a handy thing
called trust settings import,
which lets you take a canned
file of trust settings and
sort of duplicate those,
replicate them across many machines
if you need to set them up.
So here's that dialogue I alluded to
that you see in Safari and other places.
It's a SF certificate trust panel.
That is something that's provided
in the security interface framework.
And it's a standard
certificate dialogue for OS X.
So you'll see this in Safari.
You'll see it in Mail, iCal,
things that need to ask a trust question.
I've encountered a certificate.
I'm not able to build
that chain of trust.
So what do I do?
And-- excuse me.
In Safari here and in other places,
you'll notice that you have
the ability in 10.5 to add a
little bit of restriction to
how you trust the certificate.
For example,
I may not want to trust the certificate
across the board for every use.
I only want to trust it when I'm
going to one particular website
and the UI gives you the ability
to narrow down that trust here.
So let me switch over to the demo machine
here and give you a look at what that
process looks like for starting trust.
Again, Safari is kind of a
canonical example here.
I'll go to a site and the first
time I've gone to this Red Hat site,
I noticed that it, well,
doesn't have a trusted certificate.
And I can examine that,
look at the details here,
and I see that Red Hat has a
certificate that was issued by
something called Certificate Shack.
Well, I...
I have never heard of certificate
shack and I don't know how big
the shack is and whether they're
dealing stuff out of the back.
I really don't know too much about them.
So I would be very leery of taking the
certificate shack route and trusting
it across the board of my system.
But because we have the user trust
domain and the ability to extend
trust only to one particular cert,
I can decide to trust just the
Red Hat server and additionally
specify that I only want to trust this
when I'm actually going to that site.
So because this is a change in trust,
I need to authenticate.
I'll type in my password here.
And when I go and examine the
certificate chain up here by clicking
the lock icon that's up in the corner,
I can see that the Red Hat server
now is marked as trusted.
We have a new status that I've
trusted this for this account
and the user trust domain.
And the thing to notice here is that
there's only one certificate now
because the chain only needed to be
built just at that one certificate.
And I didn't need to build it all
the way back to certificate shack
in order to trust the certificate.
Let's look at another example.
A server at the University of Maryland.
They're an interesting case because
they have set up a complete certificate
authority for their organization and
they have a route that they created and
then they issued a certificate from it,
an intermediate and then another
server signing cert and they have it
parceled out in a nice hierarchy here.
Now, of course,
if I just want to go to this
one particular web server at
the University of Maryland,
I could trust it just like
I trusted the Red Hat site.
But let me put on my system administrator
hat for a minute and think about this.
You know,
I really want to extend trust to the
whole organization and I want to set up
my machine or multiple machines so that
I'm not bothered with these dialogues
and I just trust it across the board.
So let's look at another
way to extend trust.
I've downloaded the route for
this particular organization
here and I'll just open it up.
When I open it, it opens up in keychain
access and asks me,
do I want to add the certificate?
Now, remember,
if I want to add it in a way that all
accounts across the system can see it,
I should add it to the system keychain.
So I'll go ahead and do that.
And in order to add it,
I need to authenticate.
All I did there was just add
it to the system keychain.
And remember, it's very important,
just being in a particular keychain
does not trust the certificate.
Trust is completely separate
from where the cert lives.
So I'm additionally asked if I want
to trust this particular route.
I'll go ahead and do that.
And again, it's a decision that
requires authentication.
Now I can go into the system keychain
and I see that I have this certificate
and it's marked as trusted for all users
because it's trusted in the admin domain.
So if I was to go back
to this server here,
[Transcript missing]
So let's look at a few
more options we have,
in this case on the command line.
I don't necessarily need to,
as I showed you with the checkbox,
to trust a certificate at just
the granularity across the board.
I can trust it for a particular server
and I can add conditions to trust that.
The security command here, again,
it's very versatile.
It's add trusted cert.
It has a variety of options.
And the first option there, minus D,
is the one that you use to control
whether it's in the admin domain,
this is a decision across all users,
or the user domain.
And there's a variety of other ones here,
policy, I won't get into all of them,
app, policy strings, allowed errors,
but what I'll go ahead and do
here is show you a sample command
that adds a trusted certificate.
I've passed in here the minus D option,
which says that I want this
to be in the admin domain.
I've passed a minus K option,
which is a particular keychain
that I want to add this to,
in this case, the system keychain.
And then the file that contains my
certificate that I want to trust.
So I'll go ahead and
execute this command.
And it just executes because,
as many of you have noticed already,
I'm running a root shell here,
so it just works.
So if we look at what the trust
settings are now in keychain access,
I'll look in the system keychain,
and I now have an Apple data security
root that I've marked as trusted.
And that's just one way
to set things up here.
But I can also take a snapshot here.
with trust settings export.
Now trust settings export will let me,
Either export all the system
trust settings or just a
particular user's trust settings.
So let me quickly.
I'm going to dump what I've got here,
-d again, the admin domain,
and I'll save that to a temporary file.
It tells me that I've
done it successfully.
And then I can go back in,
and if I'm a student,
maybe I'm mucking around or I'm
changing this configuration,
I'll go ahead and remove the trust here.
I'll never trust this one.
And I'll authenticate
to make that change.
And that's no longer trusted and
I can make some other changes.
But what I can do at the end of the day,
is reverse those and take the
snapshot that I made earlier
and use trust settings import
to blast it back into place.
So I'll do the reverse of what
I did here using that file
and import the trust settings.
And now if we look back here,
we'll see things are exactly
back to the way they were when
I took the snapshot and my data
security server is trusted again.
So that's kind of a high level basic
overview of setting up trust on Mac OS X.
I have a session on
Thursday at I believe 5:00,
session 427,
that gets more in depth into this.
So I hope that if you're
interested you'll come to that.
And with that I'd like to
turn it back over to Shawn.
So if we could have
the slide machine back.
Thanks.
Thank you, Ken.
So what we want to spend a
little bit of time now on is
many of you kind of wanted to,
again, take the issuance into your own
hand and you wanted to be able to
start creating your own CAs and
issue your own certificates,
maybe for creating your own services
within a work group or within an
agency to just maybe even set up a test
lab and test some of these services.
So what we want to do is share a
little bit of what you can do with
creating these identities using
the built-in services within OS X.
Now, when you create these identities,
first of all,
you need to define your root certificate.
What Ken was just showing
you is that whole trust model
going back to the trusted root,
the anchor.
And what you first of all do is define
your own root certificate authority,
that kind of central third party
authority that does the whole
validation of certificates.
And then you're going to
issue either an intermediate,
kind of a sub CA.
I think Ken was showing you a
couple of them where they had a
couple intermediates in line there.
And then ultimately you're going
to issue those certificates to your
end users for various purposes,
maybe for SMIME.
So if you think about your thought
process through this and how you want
to issue this in your environment,
of course we're going to
start with the root CA.
So it's kind of my enterprise.
I'm going to create my
own certificate authority.
Well, as I go forward,
the first thing I need to
think about is how am I going
to separate kind of the usage.
Ken had mentioned it's very
good to create certificates,
particularly in this case,
that have a particular or a single usage.
So I'm going to create an intermediate,
and the only purpose for
that intermediate is to sign
SMIME certificates for your end users.
So you have a limited scope of
what that intermediate can do.
At this point, then I'm issuing
certificates for my users,
right?
Joe user at my company
or my organization.
And I can then be issuing to
each one of my users just for
the sole purposes for S/MIME.
I would take that further.
Maybe there's some
in-house coding going on.
So now I'm going to create a
code signing intermediate that,
again,
does the same kind of thing as issue
those certificates for the developers.
Some folks might think
that this would be easier.
Why don't you just create those
intermediates to do everything?
You know, kind of the key usage of any.
Separating the usage, again,
limits scope.
It limits the kind of your exposure if
for any reason the initial identity,
the private key for that particular
usage was compromised in any way.
You can go ahead and revoke that
and issue a new certificate for
that purpose without revoking it.
You can go ahead and revoke that and
issue a new certificate for that purpose
without revoking the whole function for
all your services for all your users.
So, again, it limits scope,
gives you a little bit of better control
with the issuance of certificates.
So as you look at your cert, right,
so here's my root certificate
authority that I created.
And the key thing is that the
only function that this root
has is for digital signature
and the key cert signing.
That's the only functionality
that that root has.
[Transcript missing]
So a thing to keep in mind,
now we're kind of drawing a
little bit of the differences
between the phone and OS X,
because everything that we've
been talking about really applies
to both of those environments.
First of all,
the key point about the phone is
that it's the same root certificates
in the phone with the 2.0 release as
is available and shipped in 10.5.3.
So those root certificates,
as Ken had mentioned,
in the system root keychain,
those are the exact same
ones that are in the phone.
And the way to get or add additional
anchors to the phone itself,
there's three methods.
And typically those are going
to be done within IT departments
with configuration profiles.
But you can also get those onto the
phones through email attachments,
where again they would be
opened up from the phone side.
Or they would be accessing a
secure website and again opening
up that particular object itself,
downloading it in
Safari and adding it to the,
you know, the OS X.
particular phone itself.
So we've been creating,
we've been issuing, we've been kind of
viewing all this stuff.
Where can you use it as a user?
We've been referring to Safari as
kind of the typical app.
Of course, in mail,
you can do the sign-in encryption
of email with these identities.
iChat, hopefully many of you have been
leveraging the secure iChat
capabilities where you can
encrypt your text messaging,
your video and audio with
other .Mac customers.
Back to my Mac.
You aren't aware of or you're
not really doing any kind of
configuration yourself related to
certificates for the Back to my Mac.
But when you enable that
between two machines,
it's leveraging your identity
associated with that .Mac account.
That ties in with the local KDC that
is being used for Back to my Mac.
The VPN.
Just about all of you are probably
using either Layer 2 or Point to
Point or now you may be doing or
leveraging more of the PureVPN.
The Pure IPsec that's
available with the phone.
Again, a key area that you'll be using
these identities that either you
issue yourself with certificate
assistant or you're getting from
another certificate authority.
802.1X.
And if you're into the development realm,
again, code signing.
The other points I wanted to bring out
about this is historically the iChat
certificates or the certificates to
use for encryption of iChat sessions
was always automatically being done.
And leveraged when you're
using iChat AV itself.
But with certificate assistant,
you can actually issue certificates
with the capability of doing the
encryption for iChat sessions.
That would give you the ability to
issue your own search within your
own kind of organization environment.
Again, the same with code signing.
Issue your own code signing certificates
from the certificate assistant if you're
not part of the iPhone development.
This is a couple kind of
walkthrough of the applications.
Ken was talking about the
typical dialogues you face.
Earlier I had mentioned about
the leveraging of identities and
setting the identity preferences.
If you're hitting websites,
if things are requiring
client-side authentication,
you're going to be prompted with a
selection of one of those identities.
If you're in mail,
and I always bring this
up as a good example,
just to be sure that folks truly
understand how mail automatically
picks up the use of your identity.
In this case,
the account that I'm leveraging
is my Geddis at Apple.com account.
And you'll note that it's all lowercase.
And what mail was doing
is requesting to the OS,
is there a corresponding identity,
essentially with a certificate with
the ability of doing digital signature,
with an email address,
or the RFC822 name,
with Geddis at Apple.com.
So it's kind of the default.
It's happening on my behalf without me
specifically configuring mail to do this.
Now, if I had configured mail
to have an uppercase G,
lowercase e-d-d-i-s,
mail would not be showing
me the ability of digitally
signing that message by default.
And one of the points that we
always bring out to IT folks is
that we're very much conforming to
the RFC that everything to the left
of the at symbol is case sensitive.
And it's an environment that is
frequently ignored in other mail agents.
So take note on OS X that in this case,
I need to be sure that the case of
everything to the left of the at symbol
matches what's in my certificate.
It's a very key piece.
Same thing when I'm going to send
the email message to an individual,
in this case, Joe User.
If I key in their email address and
I have access either inside one of my
keychains to their public certificate
or a LDAP store that I can pull it from,
I would then be able to
encrypt that message to them.
But in a like manner,
as I just mentioned in
my digitally signing and
matching the case sensitivity,
same thing with the encryption
to a recipient itself.
You'll note in iChat AV,
I'm not going to be able to
encrypt that message to them.
But in iChat AV now,
it's kind of an update recently,
is that you have the ability of
selecting between which certificates
you're using for the signing
and encryption within iChat.
Previously,
you kind of had an on and off.
You enabled iChat encryption,
and that was kind of it.
It was kind of an on or off situation.
Here, you're also able to select
which ones are in use.
This gives you the ability, again,
going back, and if you wanted to issue
your own certificates out of
the certificate assistant,
we're issuing this from
your own enterprise CA,
you could now select those certificates.
[Transcript missing]
Some of the good related sessions to
some of the content that we've hit here.
Again, this was very much of a
high-level discussion.
We could spend a while getting and
burrowing down into each type of service
or use of trust and certificates.
One of the key ones is managing
secure data on the iPhone.
That's later in the week on Thursday.
Signing your application
identity with code signing.
That's now taking your iPhone
identity that you get issued
by Developer Relations,
leveraging that with your applications,
pushing it onto the phone.
And then, of course, a more technical,
lower-level API discussion,
very much of similar content
that we covered here today.
Ken will be doing managing X.509
certificates and digital identities.
also in the afternoon on Thursday.
So I think at this point probably the
best thing is to shift on over to Q&A.
I'll turn things over to Jason.